index.md, before:

# **_Reflections_**

## **assignment questions**

1. How do Computers work?

### **reflections:**

It is really cool to see how simplistically complex computers are. I mean just by 1s and 0s we get what we have to day. The philosopher in me can't help but say that computers run on logical principals of really basic if than instructions.

When it comes to bit sizes is it accurate to say that the more bits or bytes a computer has the more complex instructions it can handle?

The electricity example of basic on or off is really helpful as thats just how most of the daily things we use works. I mean with the power logo it basically just shows a diagram of how a light switch works (on is up down is off).

The machine learning section is super interesting. Especially in understanding how we think about coding. That what I am writing is being translated by another set of instructions into 1s and 0s THEN the computer understands what I am telling it to do. I didn't really think of a middle man being part of the process.

When thinking about how small a chip (not sure what specifically he is talking about) is and how bits and or bytes work it makes a lot more sense how technology limits what we can and can not do. But thankfully technology progress so quickly especially in these days.

Commit message:

Add Reflections on 'What is the Terminal and NPM'

index.md, after:

# **_Reflections_**

## **assignment questions**

1. What is the terminal?
2. What is the prompt?
3. What is a directory?
4. What is cd?
5. What is npm? What does it stand for? What is it used for?
6. What file must be present for npm to work? (manifest file)
7. How do we add a script to package.json?
8. How do we install a package? Why would we want to do this?
9. What is Vite?

### **reflections:**

#### Terminal: What it is and how to use it

When asking the question what is the terminal, we cannot really answer that question without talking about why it is preferable than using the gooey. In essence there is not really a difference between the gooey and the terminal they do the same things. BUT, using the terminal is far more efficient. In this way the user can create a file and enter that file add or create changes much faster and with less effort than if the user used the gooey. In another sense using the terminal to update software and or load software is way more efficient than using the gooey. The terminal also uses less power and runs less programs sense it doesn't have to run any graphics or run images.

What the terminal is though with all this in mind is in essence a text based interface with your device that allows you to create files, run programs, and update/ install software. Some synonyms are git bash or warp. I understand these are programs that we use to access the terminal but the terminal is a "place" where we directly talk to the computer and give it instructions.

While in the terminal we execute commands via a prompt, which is just a nerdy term for where you write specific commands that the computer understands. In essence think a google search bar, we type stuff in there and if the search engine recognizes something it fetches and brings it to you. But if you type a query and it doesn't know anything about the search you get a sort of error message. In the same way if I type a command into the prompt the computer does not understand either nothing will happen or I will get an error message.

When thinking of a directory we ought to think basically of the finder icon and opening that and we see a bunch of folders. Translating that into the terminal we can enter a directory giving us access to those folders. For example I have a SWICSpring folder. To access this in the terminal I would use cd SWICSpring and if I typed ls (list command) into the prompt i would see what files are in that directory. cd as a command in essence just tells the terminal i want to move directories from SWICSpring into Web Development directory (going down a level).

#### NPM: [Node Package Manager](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P3aKRdUyr0s)

This is kind of complicated and I am not 100% sure I understand what NPM is. But Im all about getting things wrong to better understand what things are (haha philosophy in a nutshell). From my understanding NPM is a "page" that we can go to, to get free open source software that helps us be more effect with our coding. In this way we "buy" the parts for a car and don't have to build the parts from the ground up. From my understanding what we have used it for though is to translate our code for different parts of the web and or to optimize it for certain browsers?

In order for us to use NPM we have to have a [package.json](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4xR2nV7MGfE). I am also kind of fuzzy on this. From my understanding package.json in essence lives at the root of our NPM folder and grounds (or anchors) all of our code. Package.json gives our code its rules and identity in a way from my understanding. Package.json is often called the manifest file as it gives a general description of our code.

Installing NPM we just go to our terminal and type "npmi" into the prompt. Through this i believe a package.json is included in npm. While we installed npm and through that package.json we got a tool called vite. Vite is in essence an emulator that shows what our code would look like through a browser. Vite is just a tool that stream lines emulating our css.
